<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>III</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="ch02.xhtml" title="II"/><link rel="next" href="ch04.xhtml" title="IV"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="III" epub:type="chapter" id="id70352988081660"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">III</h1></div></div></div><p>As Lloyd Searight turned into Calumet Square on her way from the
bookseller's, with her purchases under her arm, she was surprised to
notice a drop of rain upon the back of one of her white gloves. She
looked up quickly; the sun was gone. On the east side of the square,
under the trees, the houses that at this hour of the afternoon should
have been overlaid with golden light were in shadow. The heat that had
been palpitating through all the City's streets since early morning was
swiftly giving place to a certain cool and odorous dampness. There was
even a breeze beginning to stir in the tops of the higher elms. As the
drops began to thicken upon the warm, sun–baked asphalt under foot Lloyd
sharply quickened her pace. But the summer storm was coming up rapidly.
By the time she reached the great granite–built agency on the opposite
side of the square she was all but running, and as she put her key in
the door the rain swept down with a prolonged and muffled roar.</p><p>She let herself into the spacious, airy hallway of the agency, shutting
the door by leaning against it, and stood there for an instant to get
her breath. Rownie, the young mulatto girl, one of the servants of the
house, who was going upstairs with an armful of clean towels, turned
about at the closing of the door and called:</p><p>"Jus' in time, Miss Lloyd; jus' in time. I reckon Miss Wakeley and Miss
Esther Thielman going to get for sure wet. They ain't neither one of 'em
took ary umberel."</p><p>"Did Miss Wakeley and Miss Thielman both go out?" demanded Lloyd
quickly. "Did they both go on a call?"</p><p>"Yes, Miss Lloyd," answered Rownie. "I don't know because why Miss
Wakeley went, but Miss Esther Thielman got a typhoid call—another one.
That's three f'om this house come next Sunday week. I reckon Miss
Wakeley going out meks you next on call, Miss Lloyd."</p><p>While Rownie had been speaking Lloyd had crossed the hall to where the
roster of the nurses' names, in little movable slides, hung against the
wall. As often as a nurse was called out she removed her name from the
top of this list and slid it into place at the bottom, so that whoever
found her name at the top of the roster knew that she was "next on call"
and prepared herself accordingly.</p><p>Lloyd's name was now at the top of the list. She had not been gone five
minutes from the agency, and it was rare for two nurses to be called out
in so short a time.</p><p>"Is it your tu'n?" asked Rownie as Lloyd faced quickly about.</p><p>"Yes, yes," answered Lloyd, running up the stairs, adding, as she passed
the mulatto: "There's been no call sent in since Miss Thielman left, has
there, Rownie?" Rownie shook her head.</p><p>Lloyd went directly to her room, tossed her books aside without removing
the wrappers, and set about packing her satchel. When this was done she
changed her tailor–made street dress and crisp skirt for clothes that
would not rustle when she moved, and put herself neatly to rights,
stripping off her rings and removing the dog–violets from her waist.
Then she went to the round, old–fashioned mirror that hung between the
windows of her room, and combed back her hair in a great roll from her
forehead and temples, and stood there a moment or so when she had done,
looking at her reflection.</p><p>She was tall and of a very vigorous build, full–throated, deep–chested,
with large, strong hands and solid, round wrists. Her face was rather
serious; one did not expect her to smile easily; the eyes dull blue,
with no trace of sparkle and set deep under heavy, level eyebrows. Her
mouth was the mouth of the obstinate, of the strong–willed, and her chin
was not small. But her hair was a veritable glory, a dull–red flame,
that bore back from her face in one great solid roll, dull red, like
copper or old bronze, thick, heavy, almost gorgeous in its sombre
radiance. Dull–red hair, dull–blue eyes, and a faint, dull glow forever
on her cheeks, Lloyd was a beautiful woman; much about her that was
regal, for she was very straight as well as very tall, and could look
down upon most women and upon not a few men.</p><p>Lloyd turned from the mirror, laying down the comb. She had yet to pack
her nurse's bag, or, since this was always ready, to make sure that none
of its equipment was lacking. She was very proud of this bag, as she had
caused it to be made after her own ideas and design. It was of black
russia leather and in the form of an ordinary valise, but set off with a
fine silver clasp bearing her name and the agency's address. She brought
it from the closet and ran over its contents, murmuring the while to
herself:</p><p>"Clinical thermometer—brandy—hypodermic syringe—vial of oxalic–acid
crystals—minim–glass—temperature charts; yes, yes, everything right."</p><p>While she was still speaking Miss Douglass, the fever nurse, knocked at
her door, and, finding it ajar, entered without further ceremony.</p><p>"Are you in, Miss Searight?" called Miss Douglass, looking about the
room, for Lloyd had returned to the closet and was busy washing the
minim–glass.</p><p>"Yes, yes," cried Lloyd, "I am. Sit down."</p><p>"Rownie told me you are next on call," said the other, dropping on
Lloyd's couch.</p><p>"So I am; I was very nearly caught, too. I ran over across the square
for five minutes, and while I was gone Miss Wakeley and Esther Thielman
were called. My name is at the top now."</p><p>"Esther got a typhoid case from Dr. Pitts. Do you know, Lloyd,
that's—let me see, that's four—seven—nine—that's ten typhoid cases
in the City that I can think of right now."</p><p>"It's everywhere; yes, I know," answered Lloyd, coming out of the room,
carefully drying the minim–glass.</p><p>"We are going to have trouble with it," continued the fever nurse;
"plenty of it before cool weather comes. It's almost epidemic."</p><p>Lloyd held the minim–glass against the light, scrutinising it with
narrowed lids.</p><p>"What did Esther say when she knew it was an infectious case?" she
asked. "Did she hesitate at all?"</p><p>"Not she!" declared Miss Douglass. "She's no Harriet Freeze."</p><p>Lloyd did not answer. This case of Harriet Freeze was one that the
nurses of the house had never forgotten and would never forgive. Miss
Freeze, a young English woman, newly graduated, suddenly called upon to
nurse a patient stricken with smallpox, had flinched and had been found
wanting at the crucial moment, had discovered an excuse for leaving her
post, having once accepted it. It was cowardice in the presence of the
Enemy. Anything could have been forgiven but that. On the girl's return
to the agency nothing was said, no action taken, but for all that she
was none the less expelled dishonourably from the midst of her
companions. Nothing could have been stronger than the <span class="emphasis"><em>esprit de corps</em></span>
of this group of young women, whose lives were devoted to an unending
battle with disease.</p><p>Lloyd continued the overhauling of her equipment, and began ruling forms
for nourishment charts, while Miss Douglass importuned her to subscribe
to a purse the nurses were making up for an old cripple dying of cancer.
Lloyd refused.</p><p>"You know very well, Miss Douglass, that I only give to charity through
the association."</p><p>"I know," persisted the other, "and I know you give twice as much as all
of us put together, but with this poor old fellow it's different. We
know all about him, and every one of us in the house has given
something. You are the only one that won't, Lloyd, and I had so hoped I
could make it tip to fifty dollars."</p><p>"No."</p><p>"We need only three dollars now. We can buy that little cigar stand for
him for fifty dollars."</p><p>"No."</p><p>"And you won't give us just three dollars?"</p><p>"No."</p><p>"Well, you give half and I'll give half," said Miss Douglass.</p><p>"Do you think it's a question of money with me?" Lloyd smiled.</p><p>Indeed this was a poor argument with which to move Lloyd—Lloyd whose
railroad stock alone brought her some fifteen thousand dollars a year.</p><p>"Well, no; I don't mean that, of course, but, Lloyd, do let us have
three dollars, and I can send word to the old chap this very afternoon.
It will make him happy for the rest of his life."</p><p>"No—no—no, not three dollars, nor three cents."</p><p>Miss Douglass made a gesture of despair. She might have expected that
she could not move Lloyd. Once her mind was made up, one might argue
with her till one's breath failed. She shook her head at Lloyd and
exclaimed, but not ill–naturedly:</p><p>"Obstinate! Obstinate! Obstinate!"</p><p>Lloyd put away the hypodermic syringe and the minim–glass in their
places in the bag, added a little ice–pick to its contents, and shut the
bag with a snap.</p><p>"Now," she announced, "I'm ready."</p><p>When Miss Douglass had taken herself away Lloyd settled herself in the
place she had vacated, and, stripping the wrappings from the books and
magazines she had bought, began to turn the pages, looking at the
pictures. But her interest flagged. She tried to read, but soon cast the
book from her and leaned back upon the great couch, her hands clasped
behind the great bronze–red coils at the back of her head, her dull–blue
eyes fixed and vacant.</p><p>For hours the preceding night she had lain broad awake in her bed,
staring at the shifting shadow pictures that the electric lights,
shining through the trees down in the square, threw upon the walls and
ceiling of her room. She had eaten but little since morning; a growing
spirit of unrest had possessed her for the last two days. Now it had
reached a head. She could no longer put her thoughts from her.</p><p>It had all come back again for the fiftieth time, for the hundredth
time, the old, intolerable burden of anxiety growing heavier month by
month, year by year. It seemed to her that a shape of terror, formless,
intangible, and invisible, was always by her, now withdrawing, now
advancing, but always there; there close at hand in some dark corner
where she could not see, ready at every instant to assume a terrible and
all too well–known form, and to jump at her from behind, from out the
dark, and to clutch her throat with cold fingers. The thing played with
her, tormented her; at times it all but disappeared; at times she
believed she had fought it from her for good, and then she would wake of
a night, in the stillness and in the dark, and know it to be there once
more—at her bedside—at her back—at her throat—till her heart went
wild with fear, and the suspense of waiting for an Enemy that would not
strike, but that lurked and leered in dark corners, wrung from her a
suppressed cry of anguish and exasperation, and drove her from her sleep
with streaming eyes and tight–shut hands and wordless prayers.</p><p>For a few moments Lloyd lay back upon the couch, then regained her feet
with a brusque, harassed movement of head and shoulders.</p><p>"Ah, no," she exclaimed under her breath, "it is too dreadful."</p><p>She tried to find diversion in her room, rearranging the few ornaments,
winding the clock that struck ships' bells instead of hours, and turning
the wicks of the old empire lamps that hung in brass brackets on either
side the fireplace. Lloyd, after building the agency, had felt no
scruple in choosing the best room in the house and furnishing it
according to her taste. Her room was beautiful, but very simple in its
appointments. There were great flat wall–space unspoiled by bric–à–brac,
the floor marquetry, with but few rugs. The fireplace and its
appurtenances were of brass. Her writing–desk, a huge affair, of ancient
and almost black San Domingo mahogany.</p><p>But soon she wearied of the small business of pottering about her clock
and lamps, and, turning to the window, opened it, and, leaning upon her
elbows, looked down into the square.</p><p>By now the thunderstorm was gone, like the withdrawal of a dark curtain;
the sun was out again over the City. The square, deserted but half an
hour ago, was reinvaded with its little people of nurse–maids,
gray–coated policemen, and loungers reading their papers on the benches
near the fountain. The elms still dripped, their wet leaves glistening
again to the sun. There was a delicious smell in the air—a smell of
warm, wet grass, of leaves and drenched bark from the trees. On the far
side of the square, seen at intervals in the spaces between the foliage,
a passing truck painted vermilion set a brisk note of colour in the
scene. A newsboy appeared chanting the evening editions. On a sudden and
from somewhere close at hand an unseen hand–piano broke out into a gay,
jangling quickstep, marking the time with delightful precision.</p><p>A carriage, its fine lacquered flanks gleaming in the sunlight, rolled
through the square, on its way, no doubt, to the very fashionable
quarter of the City just beyond. Lloyd had a glimpse of the girl leaning
back in its cushions, a girl of her own age, with whom she had some
slight acquaintance. For a moment Lloyd, ridden with her terrors, asked
herself if this girl, with no capabilities for either great happiness or
great sorrow, were not perhaps, after all, happier than she. But she
recoiled instantly, murmuring to herself with a certain fierce energy:</p><p>"No, no; after all, I have lived."</p><p>And how had she lived? For the moment Lloyd was willing to compare
herself with the girl in the landau. Swiftly she ran over her own life
from the time when left an orphan; in the year of her majority she had
become her own mistress and the mistress of the Searight estate. But
even at that time she had long since broken away from the conventional
world she had known. Lloyd was a nurse in the great St Luke's Hospital
even then, had been a probationer there at the time of her mother's
death, six months before. She had always been ambitious, but vaguely so,
having no determined object in view. She recalled how at that time she
knew only that she was in love with her work, her chosen profession, and
was accounted the best operating nurse in the ward.</p><p>She remembered, too, the various steps of her advancement, the positions
she had occupied; probationer first, then full member of the active
corps, next operating nurse, then ward manager, and, after her
graduation, head nurse of ward four, where the maternity cases were
treated. Then had come the time when she had left the hospital and
practised private nursing by herself, and at last, not so long ago, the
day when her Idea had so abruptly occurred to her; when her ambition, no
longer vague, no longer personal, had crystallised and taken shape; when
she had discovered a use for her money and had built and founded the
house on Calumet Square. For a time she had been the superintendent of
nurses here, until her own theories and ideas had obtained and prevailed
in its management. Then, her work fairly started, she had resigned her
position to an older woman, and had taken her place in the rank and file
of the nurses themselves. She wished to be one of them, living the same
life, subject to the same rigorous discipline, and to that end she had
never allowed it to be known that she was the founder of the house. The
other nurses knew that she was very rich, very independent and
self–reliant, but that was all. Lloyd did not know and cared very little
how they explained the origin and support of the agency.</p><p>Lloyd was animated by no great philanthropy, no vast love of humanity in
her work; only she wanted, with all her soul she wanted, to count in the
general economy of things; to choose a work and do it; to help on,
<span class="emphasis"><em>donner un coup d'epaule</em></span>; and this, supported by her own stubborn
energy and her immense wealth, she felt that she was doing. To do things
had become her creed; to do things, not to think them; to do things, not
to talk them; to do things, not to read them. No matter how lofty the
thoughts, how brilliant the talk, how beautiful the literature—for her,
first, last, and always, were acts, acts, acts—concrete, substantial,
material acts. The greatest and happiest day of her life had been when
at last she laid her bare hand upon the rough, hard stone of the house
in the square and looked up at the facade, her dull–blue eyes flashing
with the light that so rarely came to them, while she murmured between
her teeth:</p><p>"I—did—this."</p><p>As she recalled this moment now, leaning upon her elbows, looking down
upon the trees and grass and asphalt of the square, and upon a receding
landau, a wave of a certain natural pride in her strength, the
satisfaction of attainment, came to her. Ah! she was better than other
women; ah! she was stronger than other women; she was carrying out a
splendid work. She straightened herself to her full height abruptly,
stretching her outspread hands vaguely to the sunlight, to the City, to
the world, to the great engine of life whose lever she could grasp and
could control, smiling proudly, almost insolently, in the consciousness
of her strength, the fine steadfastness of her purpose. Then all at once
the smile was struck from her lips, the stiffness of her poise suddenly
relaxed. There, there it was again, the terror, the dreadful fear she
dared not name, back in its place once more—at her side, at her
shoulder, at her throat, ready to clutch at her from out the dark.</p><p>She wheeled from the window, from the sunlight, her hands clasped before
her trembling lips, the tears brimming her dull–blue eyes. For
forty–eight hours she had fought this from her. But now it was no longer
to be resisted.</p><p>"No, no," she cried half aloud. "I am no better, no stronger than the
others. What does it all amount to when I know that, after all, I am
just a woman—just a woman whose heart is slowly breaking?"</p><p>But there was an interruption. Rownie had knocked twice at her door
before Lloyd had heard her. When Lloyd had opened the door the girl
handed her a card with an address written on it in the superintendent's
hand.</p><p>"This here jus' now come in f'om Dr. Street, Miss Lloyd," said Rownie;
"Miss Bergyn" (this was the superintendent nurse) "ast me to give it to
you."</p><p>It was a call to an address that seemed familiar to Lloyd at first; but
she did not stop at that moment to reflect. Her stable telephone hung
against the wall of the closet. She rang for Lewis, and while waiting
for him to get around dressed for the street.</p><p>For the moment, at the prospect of action, even her haunting fear drew
off and stood away from her. She was absorbed in her work upon the
instant—alert, watchful, self–reliant. What the case was she could only
surmise. How long she would be away she had no means of knowing—a week,
a month, a year, she could not tell. But she was ready for any
contingency. Usually the doctors informed the nurses as to the nature of
the case at the time of sending for them, but Dr. Street had not done so
now.</p><p>However, Rownie called up to her that her coupé was at the door. Lloyd
caught up her satchels and ran down the stairs, crying good–bye to Miss
Douglass, whom she saw at the farther end of the hall. In the hallway by
the vestibule she changed the slide bearing her name from the top to the
bottom of the roster.</p><p>"How about your mail?" cried Miss Douglass after her.</p><p>"Keep it here for me until I see how long I'm to be away," answered
Lloyd, her hand upon the knob. "I'll let you know."</p><p>Lewis had put Rox in the shafts, and while the coupé spun over the
asphalt at a smart clip Lloyd tried to remember where she had heard of
the address before. Suddenly she snapped her fingers; she knew the case,
had even been assigned to it some eight months before.</p><p>"Yes, yes, that's it—Campbell—wife dead—Lafayette Avenue—little
daughter, Hattie—hip disease—hopeless—poor little baby."</p><p>Arriving at the house, Lloyd found the surgeon, Dr. Street, and Mr.
Campbell, who was a widower, waiting for her in a small drawing–room off
the library. The surgeon was genuinely surprised and delighted to see
her. Most of the doctors of the City knew Lloyd for the best trained
nurse in the hospitals.</p><p>"Oh, it's you, Miss Searight; good enough!" The surgeon introduced her
to the little patient's father, adding: "If any one can pull us through,
Campbell, it will be Miss Searight."</p><p>The surgeon and nurse began to discuss the case.</p><p>"I think you know it already, don't you, Miss Searight?" said the
surgeon. "You took care of it a while last winter. Well, there was a
little improvement in the spring, not so much pain, but that in itself
is a bad sign. We have done what we could, Farnham and I. But it don't
yield to treatment; you know how these things are—stubborn. We made a
preliminary examination yesterday. Sinuses have occurred, and the probe
leads down to nothing but dead bone. Farnham and I had a consultation
this morning. We must play our last card. I shall exsect the joint
to–morrow."</p><p>Mr. Campbell drew in his breath and held it for a moment, looking out of
the window.</p><p>Very attentive, Lloyd merely nodded her head, murmuring:</p><p>"I understand."</p><p>When Dr. Street had gone Lloyd immediately set to work. The operation
was to take place at noon the following day, and she foresaw there would
be no sleep for her that night. Street had left everything to her, even
to the sterilising of his instruments. Until daylight the following
morning Lloyd came and went about the house with an untiring energy, yet
with the silence of a swiftly moving shadow, getting together the things
needed for the operation—strychnia tablets, absorbent cotton, the
rubber tubing for the tourniquet, bandages, salt, and the like—and
preparing the little chamber adjoining the sick–room as an
operating–room.</p><p>The little patient herself, Hattie, hardly into her teens, remembered
Lloyd at once. Before she went to sleep Lloyd contrived to spend an hour
in the sick–room with her, told her as much as was necessary of what
was contemplated, and, by her cheery talk, her gentleness and sympathy,
inspired the little girl with a certain sense of confidence and trust in
her.</p><p>"But—but—but just how bad will it hurt, Miss Searight?" inquired
Hattie, looking at her, wide–eyed and serious.</p><p>"Dear, it won't hurt you at all; just two or three breaths of the ether
and you will be sound asleep. When you wake up it will be all over and
you will be well."</p><p>Lloyd made the ether cone from a stiff towel, and set it on Hattie's
dressing–table. Last of all and just before the operation the gauze
sponges occupied her attention. The daytime brought her no rest. Hattie
was not to have any breakfast, but toward the middle of the forenoon
Lloyd gave her a stimulating enema of whiskey and water, following it
about an hour later by a hundredth grain of atropia. She braided the
little girl's hair in two long plaits so that her head would rest
squarely and flatly upon the pillow. Hattie herself was now ready for
the surgeon.</p><p>Now there was nothing more to be done. Lloyd could but wait. She took
her place at the bedside and tried to talk as lightly as was possible to
her patient. But now there was a pause in the round of action. Her mind
no longer keenly intent upon the immediate necessities of the moment,
began to hark back again to the one great haunting fear that for so long
had overshadowed it. Even while she exerted herself to be cheerful and
watched for the smiles on Hattie's face her hands twisted tight and
tighter under the folds of her blouse, and some second self within her
seemed to say:</p><p>"Suppose, suppose it should come, this thing I dread but dare not name,
what then, what then? Should I not expect it? Is it not almost a
certainty? Have I not been merely deceiving myself with the forlornest
hopes? Is it not the most reasonable course to expect the worst? Do not
all indications point that way? Has not my whole life been shaped to
this end? Was not this calamity, this mighty sorrow, prepared for me
even before I was born? And one can do nothing, absolutely nothing,
nothing, but wait and hope and fear, and eat out one's heart with
longing."</p><p>There was a knock at the door. Instead of calling to enter Lloyd went to
it softly and opened it a few inches. Mr. Campbell was there.</p><p>"They've come—Street and the assistant."</p><p>Lloyd heard a murmur of voices in the hall below and the closing of the
front door.</p><p>Farnham and Street went at once to the operating–room to make their
hands and wrists aseptic. Campbell had gone downstairs to his
smoking–room. It had been decided—though contrary to custom—that Lloyd
should administer the chloroform.</p><p>At length Street tapped with the handle of a scalpel on the door to say
that he was ready.</p><p>"Now, dear," said Lloyd, turning to Hattie, and picking up the ether
cone.</p><p>But the little girl's courage suddenly failed her. She began to plead in
a low voice choked with tears. Her supplications were pitiful; but
Lloyd, once more intent upon her work, every faculty and thought
concentrated upon what must be done, did not temporise an instant.
Quietly she gathered Hattie's frail wrists in the grip of one strong
palm, and held the cone to her face until she had passed off with a long
sigh. She picked her up lightly, carried her into the next room, and
laid her upon the operating–table. At the last moment Lloyd had busied
herself with the preparation of her own person. Over her dress she
passed her hospital blouse, which had been under a dry heat for hours.
She rolled her sleeves up from her strong white forearms with their
thick wrists and fine blue veining, and for upward of ten minutes
scrubbed them with a new nail–brush in water as hot as she could bear
it. After this she let her hands and forearms lie in the permanganate of
potash solution till they were brown to the elbow, then washed away the
stain in the oxalic–acid solution and in sterilised hot water. Street
and Farnham, wearing their sterilised gowns and gloves, took their
places. There was no conversation. The only sounds were an occasional
sigh from the patient, a direction given in a low tone, and, at
intervals, the click of the knives and scalpel. From outside the window
came the persistent chirping of a band of sparrows.</p><p>Promptly the operation was begun; there was no delay, no hesitation;
what there was to be done had been carefully planned beforehand, even to
the minutest details. Street, a master of his profession, thoroughly
familiar with every difficulty that might present itself during the
course of the work in hand, foreseeing every contingency, prepared for
every emergency, calm, watchful, self–contained, set about the exsecting
of the joint with no trace of compunction, no embarrassment, no
misgiving. His assistants, as well as he himself, knew that life or
death hung upon the issue of the next ten minutes. Upon Street alone
devolved the life of the little girl. A second's hesitation at the wrong
stage of the operation, a slip of bistoury or scalpel, a tremor of the
wrist, a single instant's clumsiness of the fingers, and the
Enemy—watching for every chance, intent for every momentarily opened
chink or cranny wherein he could thrust his lean fingers—entered the
frail tenement with a leap, a rushing, headlong spring that jarred the
house of life to its foundations. Lowering close over her head Lloyd
felt the shadow of his approach. He had arrived there in that
commonplace little room, with its commonplace accessories, its
ornaments, that suddenly seemed so trivial, so impertinent—the stopped
French clock, with its simpering, gilded cupids, on the mantelpiece; the
photograph of a number of picnickers "grouped" on a hotel piazza gazing
with monolithic cheerfulness at this grim business, this struggle of the
two world forces, this crisis in a life.</p><p>Then abruptly the operation was over.</p><p>The nurse and surgeons eased their positions immediately, drawing long
breaths. They began to talk, commenting upon the operation, and Lloyd,
intensely interested, asked Street why he had, contrary to her
expectations, removed the bone above the lesser trochanter. He smiled,
delighted at her intelligence.</p><p>"It's better than cutting through the neck, Miss Searight," he told her.
"If I had gone through the neck, don't you see, the trochanter major
would come over the hole and prevent the discharges."</p><p>"Yes, yes, I see, of course," assented Lloyd.</p><p>The incision was sewn up, and when all was over Lloyd carried Hattie
back to the bed in the next room. Slowly the little girl regained
consciousness, and Lloyd began to regard her once more as a human being.
During the operation she had forgotten the very existence of Hattie
Campbell, a little girl she knew. She had only seen a bit of mechanism
out of order and in the hands of a repairer. It was always so with
Lloyd. Her charges were not infrequently persons whom she knew, often
intimately, but during the time of their sickness their personalities
vanished for the trained nurse; she saw only the "case," only the
mechanism, only the deranged clockwork in imminent danger of running
down.</p><p>But the danger was by no means over. The operation had been near the
trunk. There had been considerable loss of blood, and the child's power
of resistance had been weakened by long periods of suffering. Lloyd
feared that the shock might prove too great. Farnham departed, but for a
little while the surgeon remained with Lloyd to watch the symptoms. At
length, however, he too, pressed for time, and expected at one of the
larger hospitals of the City, went away, leaving directions for Lloyd to
telephone him in case of the slightest change. At this hour, late in the
afternoon, there were no indications that the little girl would not
recover from the shock. Street believed she would rally and ultimately
regain her health.</p><p>"But," he told Lloyd as he bade her good–bye, "I don't need to impress
upon you the need of care and the greatest vigilance; absolute rest is
the only thing; she must see nobody, not even her father. The whole
system is numbed and deadened just yet, but there will be a change
either for better or worse some time to–night."</p><p>For thirty–six hours Lloyd had not closed an eye, but of that she had no
thought. Her supper was sent up to her, and she prepared herself for her
night's watch. She gave the child such nourishment as she believed she
could stand, and from time to time took her pulse, making records of it
upon her chart for the surgeon's inspection later on. At intervals she
took Hattie's temperature, placing the clinical thermometer in the
armpit. Toward nine in the evening, while she was doing this for the
third time within the hour, one of the house servants came to the room
to inform her that she was wanted on the telephone. Lloyd hesitated,
unwilling to leave Hattie for an instant. However, the telephone was
close at hand, and it was quite possible that Dr. Street had rung her up
to ask for news.</p><p>But it was the agency that had called, and Miss Douglass informed her
that a telegram had arrived there for her a few moments before. Should
she hold it or send it to her by Rownie? Lloyd reflected a moment.</p><p>"Oh—open it and read it to me," she said. "It's a call, isn't
it?—or—no; send it here by Rownie, and send my hospital slippers with
her, the ones without heels. But don't ring up again to–night; we're
expecting a crisis almost any moment."</p><p>Lloyd returned to the sick–room, sent away the servant, and once more
settled herself for the night. Hattie had roused for a moment.</p><p>"Am I going to get well, am I going to get well, Miss Searight?"</p><p>Lloyd put her finger to her lips, nodding her head, and Hattie closed
her eyes again with a long breath. A certain great tenderness and
compassion for the little girl grew big in Lloyd's heart. To herself she
said:</p><p>"God helping me, you shall get well. They believe in me, these
people—'If any one could pull us through it would be Miss Searight.' We
will 'pull through,' yes, for I'll do it."</p><p>The night closed down, dark and still and very hot. Lloyd, regulating
the sick–room's ventilation, opened one of the windows from the top. The
noises of the City steadily decreasing as the hours passed, reached her
ears in a subdued, droning murmur. On her bed, that had for so long been
her bed of pain, Hattie lay with closed eyes, inert, motionless, hardly
seeming to breathe, her life in the balance; unhappy little invalid,
wasted with suffering, with drawn, pinched face and bloodless lips, and
at her side Lloyd, her dull–blue eyes never leaving her patient's face,
alert and vigilant, despite her long wakefulness, her great bronze–red
flame of hair rolling from her forehead and temples, the sombre glow in
her cheeks no whit diminished by her day of fatigue, of responsibility
and untiring activity.</p><p>For the time being she could thrust her fear, the relentless Enemy that
for so long had hung upon her heels, back and away from her. There was
another Enemy now to fight—or was it another—was it not the same
Enemy, the very same, whose shadow loomed across that sick–bed, across
the frail, small body and pale, drawn face?</p><p>With her pity and compassion for the sick child there arose in Lloyd a
certain unreasoned, intuitive obstinacy, a banding together of all her
powers and faculties in one great effort at resistance, a steadfastness
under great stress, a stubbornness, that shut its ears and eyes. It was
her one dominant characteristic rising up, strong and insistent the
instant she knew herself to be thwarted in her desires or checked in a
course she believed to be right and good. And now as she felt the
advance of the Enemy and saw the shadow growing darker across the bed
her obstinacy hardened like tempered steel.</p><p>"No," she murmured, her brows levelled, her lips compressed, "she shall
not die. I will not let her go."</p><p>A little later, perhaps an hour after midnight, at a time when she
believed Hattie to be asleep, Lloyd, watchful as ever, noted that her
cheeks began alternately to puff out and contract with her breathing. In
an instant the nurse was on her feet. She knew the meaning of this sign.
Hattie had fainted while asleep. Lloyd took the temperature. It was
falling rapidly. The pulse was weak, rapid, and irregular. It seemed
impossible for Hattie to take a deep breath.</p><p>Then swiftly the expected crisis began to develop itself. Lloyd ordered
Street to be sent for, but only as a matter of form. Long before he
could arrive the issue would be decided. She knew that now Hattie's life
depended on herself alone.</p><p>"Now," she murmured, as though the Enemy she fought could hear her, "now
let us see who is the stronger. You or I."</p><p>Swiftly and gently she drew the bed from the wall and raised its foot,
propping it in position with half a dozen books. Then, while waiting for
the servants, whom she had despatched for hot blankets, administered a
hypodermic injection of brandy.</p><p>"We will pull you through," she kept saying to herself, "we will pull
you through. I shall not let you go."</p><p>The Enemy was close now, and the fight was hand to hand. Lloyd could
almost feel, physically, actually, feel the slow, sullen, resistless
pull that little by little was dragging Hattie's life from her grip. She
set her teeth, holding back with all her might, bracing herself against
the strain, refusing with all inborn stubbornness to yield her position.</p><p>"No—no," she repeated to herself, "you shall not have her. I will not
give her up; you shall not triumph over me."</p><p>Campbell was in the room, warned by the ominous coming and going of
hushed footsteps.</p><p>"What is the use, nurse? It's all over. Let her die in peace. It's too
cruel; let her die in peace."</p><p>The half–hour passed, then the hour. Once more Lloyd administered
hypodermically the second dose of brandy. Campbell, unable to bear the
sight, had withdrawn to the adjoining room, where he could be heard
pacing the floor. From time to time he came back for a moment,
whispering:</p><p>"Will she live, nurse? Will she live? Shall we pull her through?"</p><p>"I don't know," Lloyd told him. "I don't know. Wait. Go back. I will let
you know."</p><p>Another fifteen minutes passed. Lloyd fancied that the heart's action
was growing a little stronger. A great stillness had settled over the
house. The two servants waiting Lloyd's orders in the hall outside the
door refrained even from whispering. From the next room came the muffled
sound of pacing footsteps, hurried, irregular, while with that strange
perversity which seizes upon the senses at moments when they are more
than usually acute Lloyd began to be aware of a vague, unwonted movement
in the City itself, outside there behind the drawn curtains and
half–opened window—a faint, uncertain agitation, a trouble, a passing
ripple on the still black pool of the night, coming and going, and
coming again, each time a little more insistent, each time claiming a
little more attention and notice. It was about half past three o'clock.
But the little patient's temperature was rising—there could be no doubt
about that. The lungs expanded wider and deeper. Hattie's breathing was
unmistakably easier; and as Lloyd put her fingers to the wrist she could
hardly keep back a little exultant cry as she felt the pulse throbbing
fuller, a little slower, a little more regularly. Now she redoubled her
attention. Her hold upon the little life shut tighter; her power of
resistance, her strength of purpose, seemed to be suddenly quadrupled.
She could imagine the Enemy drawing off; she could think that the grip
of cold fingers was loosening.</p><p>Slowly the crisis passed off, slowly the reaction began. Hattie was
still unconscious, but there was a new look upon her face—a look that
Lloyd had learned to know from long experience, an intangible and most
illusive expression, nothing, something, the sign that only those who
are trained to search for it may see and appreciate—the earliest faint
flicker after the passing of the shadow.</p><p>"Will she live, will she live, nurse?" came Mr. Campbell's whisper at
her shoulder.</p><p>"I think—I am almost sure—but we must not be too certain yet. Still
there's a chance; yes, there's a chance."</p><p>Campbell, suddenly gone white, put out his hand and leaned a moment
against the mantelpiece. He did not now leave the room. The door–bell
rang.</p><p>"Dr. Street," murmured Lloyd.</p><p>But what had happened in the City? There in the still dark hours of that
hot summer night an event of national, perhaps even international,
importance had surely transpired. It was in the air—a sense of a Great
Thing come suddenly to a head somewhere in the world. Footsteps sounded
rapidly on the echoing sidewalks. Here and there a street door opened.
From corner to corner, growing swiftly nearer, came the cry of newsboys
chanting extras. A subdued excitement was abroad, finding expression in
a vague murmur, the mingling of many sounds into one huge note—a note
that gradually swelled and grew louder and seemed to be rising from all
corners of the City at once.</p><p>There was a step at the sick–room door. Dr. Street? No, Rownie—Rownie
with two telegrams for Lloyd.</p><p>Lloyd took them from her, then with a sharp, brusque movement of her
head and suddenly smitten with an idea, turned from them to listen to
the low, swelling murmur of the City. These despatches—no, they were no
"call" for her. She guessed what they might be. Why had they come to her
now? Why was there this sense of some great tidings in the wind? The
same tidings that had come to the world might come to her—in these
despatches. Might it not be so? She caught her breath quickly. The
terror, the fearful anxiety that had haunted and oppressed her for so
long, was it to be lifted now at last? The Enemy that lurked in the dark
corners, ever ready to clutch her, was it to be driven back and away
from her forever? She dared not hope for it. But something was coming to
her; she knew it, she felt it; something was preparing for her, coming
to her swifter with every second—coming, coming, coming from out the
north. She saw Dr. Street in the room, though how and when he had
arrived she could not afterward recall. Her mind was all alert, intent
upon other things, listening, waiting. The surgeon had been leaning over
the bed. Suddenly he straightened up, saying aloud to Campbell:</p><p>"Good, good, we're safe. We have pulled through."</p><p>Lloyd tore open her telegrams. One was signed "Bennett," the other
"Ferriss."</p><p>"Thank God!" exclaimed Mr. Campbell.</p><p>"Oh," cried Lloyd, a great sob shaking her from head to heel, a smile of
infinite happiness flashing from her face. "Oh—yes, thank God, we—we
<span class="emphasis"><em>have</em></span> pulled through."</p><p>"Am I going to get well, am I going to get well, Miss Searight?" Hattie,
once more conscious, raised her voice weak and faint.</p><p>Lloyd was on her knees beside her, her head bent over her.</p><p>"Hush; yes, dear, you are safe." Then the royal bronze–red hair bent
lower still. The dull–blue eyes were streaming now, the voice one low
quiver of sobs. Tenderly, gently Lloyd put an arm about the child, her
head bending lower and lower. Her cheek touched Hattie's. For a moment
the little girl, frail, worn, pitifully wasted, and the strong, vigorous
woman, with her imperious will and indomitable purpose, rested their
heads upon the same pillow, both broken with suffering, the one of the
body, the other of the mind.</p><p>"Safe; yes, dear, safe," whispered Lloyd, her face all but hidden.
"Safe, safe, and saved to me. Oh, dearest of all the world!"</p><p>And then to her ears the murmur of the City seemed to leap suddenly to
articulate words, the clanging thunder of the entire nation—the whole
round world thrilling with this great news that had come to it from out
the north in the small hours of this hot summer's night. And the
chanting cries of the street rolled to her like the tremendous diapason
of a gigantic organ:</p><p>"Rescued, rescued, rescued!"</p></section><footer/></body></html>