<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>VI</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="ch05.xhtml" title="V"/><link rel="next" href="ch07.xhtml" title="VII"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="VI" epub:type="chapter" id="id70352988342980"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">VI</h1></div></div></div><p>Two days after Dr. Pitts had brought Ferriss to his country house in the
outskirts of Medford he had been able to diagnose his sickness as
typhoid fever, and at once had set about telegraphing the fact to
Bennett. Then it had occurred to him that he did not know where Bennett
had gone. Bennett had omitted notifying him of his present whereabouts,
and, acting upon Dr. Pitts' advice, had hidden himself away from
everybody. Neither at his club nor at his hotel, where his mail
accumulated in extraordinary quantities, had any forwarding address been
left. Bennett would not even know that Ferriss had been moved to
Medford. So much the worse. It could not be helped. There was nothing
for the doctor to do but to leave Bennett in ignorance and go ahead and
fight for the life of Ferriss as best he could. Pitts arranged for a
brother physician to take over his practice, and devoted himself
entirely to Ferriss. And Ferriss sickened and sickened, and went
steadily from bad to worse. The fever advanced regularly to a certain
stage, a stage of imminent danger, and there paused. Rarely had Pitts
been called upon to fight a more virulent form of the disease.</p><p>What made matters worse was that Ferriss hung on for so long a time
without change one way or another. Pitts had long since been convinced
of ulceration in the membrane of the intestines, but it astonished him
that this symptom persisted so long without signs either of progressing
or diminishing. The course of the disease was unusually slow. The first
nurse had already had time to sicken and die; a second had been
infected, and yet Ferriss "hung on," neither sinking nor improving, yet
at every hour lying perilously near death. It was not often that death
and life locked horns for so long, not often that the chance was so
even. Many was the hour, many was the moment, when a hair would have
turned the balance, and yet the balance was preserved.</p><p>At her abrupt recognition of Ferriss, in this patient whom she had been
summoned to nurse, and whose hold upon life was so pitifully weak,
Lloyd's heart gave a great leap and then sank ominously in her breast.
Her first emotion was one of boundless self–reproach. Why had she not
known of this? Why had she not questioned Bennett more closely as to his
friend's sickness? Might she not have expected something like this? Was
not typhoid the one evil to be feared and foreseen after experiences
such as Ferriss had undergone—the fatigue and privations of the march
over the ice, and the subsequent months aboard the steam whaler, with
its bad food, its dirt, and its inevitable overcrowding?</p><p>And while she had been idling in the country, this man, whom she had
known since her girlhood better and longer than any of her few
acquaintances, had been struck down, and day by day had weakened and
sickened and wasted, until now, at any hour, at any moment, the life
might be snuffed out like the fight of a spent candle. What a miserable
incompetent had she been! That day in the park when she had come upon
him, so weak and broken and far spent, why had she not, with all her
training and experience, known that even then the flame was flickering
down to the socket, that a link in the silver chain was weakening? Now,
perhaps, it was too late. But quick her original obstinacy rose up in
protest. No! she would not yield the life. No, no, no; again and a
thousand times no! He belonged to her. Others she had saved, others far
less dear to her than Ferriss. Her last patient—the little girl—she
had caught back from death at the eleventh hour, and of all men would
she not save Ferriss? In such sickness as this it was the nurse and not
the doctor who must be depended upon. And, once again, never so strong,
never so fine, never so glorious, her splendid independence, her pride
in her own strength, her indomitable self–reliance leaped in her breast,
leaped and stood firm, hard as tempered steel, head to the Enemy, daring
the assault, defiant, immovable, unshaken in its resolve, unconquerable
in the steadfast tenacity of its purpose.</p><p>The story that Ferriss had told to Bennett, that uncalled–for and
inexplicable falsehood, was a thing forgotten. Death stood at the
bed–head, and in that room the little things of life had no place. The
king was holding court, and the swarm of small, everyday issues, like a
crowd of petty courtiers, were not admitted to his presence. Ferriss'
life was in danger. Lloyd saw no more than that. At once she set about
the work.</p><p>In a few rapid sentences exchanged in low voices between her and the
doctor Lloyd made herself acquainted with the case.</p><p>"We've been using the ice–pack and wet–pack to bring down the
temperature in place of the cold bath," the doctor explained. "I'm
afraid of pericarditis."</p><p>"Quinine?" inquired Lloyd.</p><p>"From twenty to forty grains in the morning and evening. Here's the
temperature chart for the last week. If we reach this point in axilla
again—" he indicated one hundred and two degrees with a
thumb–nail—"we'll have to risk the cold bath, but only in that case."</p><p>"And the tympanites?"</p><p>Dr. Pitts put his chin in the air.</p><p>"Grave—there's an intestinal ulcer, no doubt of it, and if it
perforates—well, we can send for the undertaker then."</p><p>"Has he had hemorrhages?"</p><p>"Two in the first week, but not profuse—he seemed to rally fairly well
afterward. We have been injecting ether in case of anemia. Really, Miss
Searight, the case is interesting, but wicked, wicked as original sin.
Killed off my first nurse out of hand—good little boy, conscientious
enough; took no care of himself; ate his meals in the sick–room against
my wishes; off he went—dicrotic pulse, diarrhea, vomiting, hospital,
thrombosis of pulmonary artery, <span class="emphasis"><em>pouf</em></span>, requiescat."</p><p>"And Miss Wakeley?"</p><p>"Knocked under yesterday, and she was fairly saturated with creolin
night and morning. I don't know how it happened…. Well, God for us
all. Here he is—that's the point for us." He glanced toward the bed,
and for the third time Lloyd looked at the patient.</p><p>Ferriss was in a quiet delirium, and, at intervals, from behind his
lips, dry and brown and fissured, there came the sounds of low and
indistinct muttering. Barring a certain prominence of the cheek–bones,
his face was not very wasted, but its skin was a strange, dusky pallor.
The cold pack was about his head like a sort of caricatured crown.</p><p>"Well," repeated Pitts in a moment, "I've been waiting for you to come
to get a little rest. Was up all last night. Suppose you take over
charge."</p><p>Lloyd nodded her head, removing her hat and gloves, making herself
ready. Pitts gave her some final directions, and left her alone in the
sick–room. For the moment there was nothing to do for the patient. Lloyd
put on her hospital slippers and moved silently about the room,
preparing for the night, and making some few changes in the matter of
light and ventilation. Then for a while the medicine occupied her
attention, and she was at some pains to carefully sort out the
antiseptic and disinfectants from the drugs themselves. These latter she
arranged on a table by themselves—studying the labels—assuring herself
of their uses. Quinine for the regular morning and evening doses,
sulphonal and trional for insomnia, ether for injections in case of
anemia after hemorrhage, morphine for delirium, citrite of caffeine for
weakness of the heart, tincture of valerian for the tympanites, bismuth
to relieve nausea and vomiting, and the crushed ice wrapped in flannel
cloths for the cold pack in the event of hyperpyrexia.</p><p>Later in the evening she took the temperature in the armpit, noted the
condition of the pulse, and managed to get Ferriss—still in his quiet,
muttering delirium—to drink a glass of peptonised milk. She
administered the quinine, reading the label, as was her custom, three
times, once as she took it up, again as she measured the dose, and a
last time as she returned the bottle to its place. Everything she did,
every minute change in Ferriss's condition, she entered upon a chart, so
that in the morning when Dr. Pitts should relieve her he could grasp the
situation at a glance.</p><p>The night passed without any but the expected variations of the pulse
and temperature, though toward daylight Lloyd could fancy that Ferriss,
for a few moments, came out of his delirium and was conscious of his
surroundings. For a few seconds his eyes seemed to regain something of
their intelligence, and his glance moved curiously about the room. But
Lloyd, sitting near the foot–board of the bed, turned her head from
him. It was not expedient that Ferriss should recognise her now.</p><p>Lloyd could not but commend the wisdom of bringing Ferriss to Dr.
Pitts's own house in so quiet a place as Medford. The doctor risked
nothing. He was without a family, the only other occupants of the house
being the housekeeper and cook. On more than one occasion, when an
interesting case needed constant watching, Pitts had used his house as a
sanatorium. Quiet as the little village itself was, the house was
removed some little distance from its outskirts. The air was fine and
pure. The stillness, the calm, the unbroken repose, was almost
Sabbath–like. In the early watches of the night, just at the turn of the
dawn, Lloyd heard the faint rumble of a passing train at the station
nearly five miles away. For hours that and the prolonged stridulating of
the crickets were the only sounds. Then at last, while it was yet dark,
a faint chittering of waking birds began from under the eaves and from
the apple–trees in the yard about the house. Lloyd went to the window,
and, drawing aside the curtains, stood there for a moment looking out.
She could see part of the road leading to the town, and, in the
distance, the edge of the town itself, a few well–kept country
residences of suburban dwellers of the City, and, farther on, a large,
rectangular, brick building with cupola and flagstaff, perhaps the
public school or the bank or the Odd Fellows' Hall. Nearer by were
fields and corners of pasture land, with here and there the formless
shapes of drowsing cows. One of these, as Lloyd watched, changed
position, and she could almost hear the long, deep breath that
accompanied the motion. Far off, miles upon miles, so it seemed, a
rooster was crowing at exact intervals. All at once, and close at hand,
another answered—a gay, brisk carillon that woke the echoes in an
instant. For the first time Lloyd noticed a pale, dim belt of light low
in the east.</p><p>Toward eight o'clock in the morning the doctor came to relieve her, and
while he was examining the charts and she was making her report for the
night the housekeeper announced breakfast.</p><p>"Go down to your breakfast, Miss Searight," said the doctor. "I'll stay
here the while. The housekeeper will show you to your room."</p><p>But before breakfasting Lloyd went to the room the housekeeper had set
apart for her—a different one than had been occupied by either of the
previous nurses—changed her dress, and bathed her face and hands in a
disinfecting solution. When she came out of her room the doctor met her
in the hall; his hat and stick were in his hand. "He has gone to sleep,"
he informed her, "and is resting quietly. I am going to get a mouthful
of fresh air along the road. The housekeeper is with him. If he wakes
she'll call you. I will not be gone fifteen minutes. I've not been out
of the house for five days, and there's no danger."</p><p>Breakfast had been laid in what the doctor spoke of as the glass–room.
This was an enclosed veranda, one side being of glass and opening by
French windows directly upon a little lawn that sloped away under the
apple–trees to the road. It was a charming apartment, an idea of a
sister of Dr. Pitts, who at one time had spent two years at Medford.
Lloyd breakfasted here alone, and it was here that Bennett found her.</p><p>The one public carriage of Medford, a sort of four–seated carryall, that
met all the trains at the depot, had driven to the gate at the foot of
the yard, and had pulled up, the horses reeking and blowing. Even before
it had stopped, a tall, square–shouldered man had alighted, but it was
not until he was half–way up the gravel walk that Lloyd had recognised
him. Bennett caught sight of her at the same moment, and strode swiftly
across the lawn and came into the breakfast–room by one of the open
French windows. At once the room seemed to shrink in size; his first
step upon the floor—a step that was almost a stamp, so eager it was, so
masterful and resolute—set the panes of glass jarring in their frames.
Never had Bennett seemed more out of place than in this almost dainty
breakfast–room, with its small, feminine appurtenances, its fragile
glassware, its pots of flowers and growing plants. The incongruous
surroundings emphasized his every roughness, his every angularity.
Against its background of delicate, mild tints his figure loomed
suddenly colossal; the great span of his chest and shoulders seemed
never so huge. His face; the great, brutal jaw, with its aggressive,
bullying, forward thrust; the close–gripped lips, the contracted
forehead, the small eyes, marred with the sharply defined cast, appeared
never so harsh, never so massive, never so significant of the
resistless, crude force of the man, his energy, his overpowering
determination. As he towered there before her, one hand gripped upon a
chair–back, it seemed to her that the hand had but to close to crush the
little varnished woodwork to a splinter, and when he spoke Lloyd could
imagine that the fine, frail china of the table vibrated to the
deep–pitched bass of his voice.</p><p>Lloyd had only to look at him once to know that Bennett was at the
moment aroused and agitated to an extraordinary degree. His face was
congested and flaming. Under his frown his eyes seemed flashing
veritable sparks; his teeth were set; in his temple a vein stood
prominent and throbbing. But Lloyd was not surprised. Bennett had, no
doubt, heard of Ferriss's desperate illness. Small wonder he was excited
when the life of his dearest friend was threatened. Lloyd could ignore
her own quarrel with Bennett at such a moment.</p><p>"I am so sorry," she began, "that you could not have known sooner. But
you remember you left no address. There was—"</p><p>"What are you doing here?" he broke in abruptly. "What is the
use—why—" he paused for a moment to steady his voice—"you can't stay
here," he went on. "Don't you know the risk you are running? You can't
stay here another moment."</p><p>"That," answered Lloyd, smiling, "is a matter that is interesting
chiefly to me. I suppose you know that, Mr. Bennett."</p><p>"I know that you are risking your life and—"</p><p>"And that, too, is my affair."</p><p>"I have made it mine," he responded quickly. "Oh," he exclaimed sharply,
striking the back of the chair with his open palm, "why must we always
be at cross–purposes with each other? I'm not good at talking. What is
the use of tangling ourselves with phrases? I love you, and I've come
out here to ask you, to beg you, you understand, to leave this house,
where you are foolishly risking your life. You must do it," he went on
rapidly. "I love you too well. Your life is too much to me to allow you
to hazard it senselessly, foolishly. There are other women, other
nurses, who can take your place. But you are not going to stay here."</p><p>Lloyd felt her indignation rising.</p><p>"This is my profession," she answered, trying to keep back her anger. "I
am here because it is my duty to be here." Then suddenly, as his
extraordinary effrontery dawned upon her, she exclaimed, rising to her
feet: "Do I need to explain to you what I do? I am here because I choose
to be here. That is enough. I don't care to go any further with such a
discussion as this."</p><p>"You will not leave here, then?"</p><p>"No."</p><p>Bennett hesitated an instant, searching for his words, then:</p><p>"I do not know how to ask favours. I've had little experience in that
sort of thing. You must know how hard it is for me, and you must
understand to what lengths I am driven then, when I entreat you, when I
beg of you, as humbly as it is possible for me to do so, to leave this
house, now—at once. There is a train to the City within the hour; some
one else can take your place before noon. We can telegraph; will you
go?"</p><p>"You are absurd."</p><p>"Lloyd, can't you see; don't you understand? It's as though I saw you
rushing toward a precipice with your eyes shut."</p><p>"My place is here. I shall not leave."</p><p>But Bennett's next move surprised her. His eagerness, his agitation left
him upon the instant He took out his watch.</p><p>"I was wrong," he said quietly. "The next train will not go for an hour
and a quarter. There is more time than I supposed." Then, with as much
gentleness as he could command, he added: "Lloyd, you are going to take
that train?"</p><p>"Now, you are becoming a little more than absurd," she answered. "I
don't know, Mr. Bennett, whether or not you intend to be offensive, but
I think you are succeeding rather well. You came to this house
uninvited; you invade a gentleman's private residence, and you attempt
to meddle and to interfere with me in the practice of my profession. If
you think you can impress me with heroics and declamation, please
correct yourself at once. You have only succeeded in making yourself a
little vulgar."</p><p>"That may be true or not," he answered with an indifferent movement of
his shoulders. "It is all one to me. I have made up my mind that you
shall leave this house this morning, and believe me, Miss Searight, I
shall carry my point."</p><p>For the moment Lloyd caught her breath. For the moment she saw clearly
with just what sort of man she had to deal. There was a conviction in
his manner—now that he had quieted himself—that suddenly appeared
unanswerable. It was like the slow, still moving of a piston.</p><p>But the next moment her own character reasserted itself. She remembered
what she was herself. If he was determined, she was obstinate; if he was
resolved, she was stubborn; if he was powerful, she was unyielding.
Never had she conceded her point before; never had she allowed herself
to be thwarted in the pursuance of a course she believed to be right.
Was she, of all women, to yield now? The consciousness of her own power
of resistance came suddenly to her aid. Bennett was strong, but was she
not strong herself? Where under the blue sky was the power that could
break down her will? When death itself could not prevail against her,
what in life could shake her resolution?</p><p>Suddenly the tremendous import of the moment, the magnitude of the
situation, flashed upon Lloyd. Both of them had staked everything upon
this issue. Two characters of extraordinary power clashed violently
together. There was to be no compromise, no half–measures. Either she or
Bennett must in the end be beaten. One of them was to be broken and
humbled beyond all retrieving. There in that commonplace little room,
with its trivial accessories, its inadequate background, a battle royal
swiftly prepared itself. With the abruptness of an explosion the crisis
developed.</p><p>"Do I need to tell you," remarked Bennett, "that your life is rather
more to me than any other consideration in the world? Do you suppose
when the lives of every member of my command depended upon me I was any
less resolved to succeed than I am now? I succeeded then, and I shall
succeed now, now when there is much more at stake. I am not accustomed
to failure, and I shall not fail now. I assure you that I shall stop at
nothing."</p><p>It was beyond Lloyd to retain her calmness under such aggression. It
seemed as though her self–respect demanded that she should lose her
temper.</p><p>"And you think you can drive me as you drove your deck–hands?" she
exclaimed. "What have you to do with me? Am I your subordinate? Do you
think you can bully me? We are not in Kolyuchin Bay, Mr. Bennett."</p><p>"You're the woman I love," he answered with an abrupt return of
vehemence, "and, by God! I shall stop at nothing to save your life."</p><p>"And my love for you, that you pretend is so much to you, I suppose that
this is the means you take to awaken it. Admitting, for the moment, that
you could induce me to shirk my duty, how should I love you for it? Ask
yourself that."</p><p>But Bennett had but one answer to all her words. He struck his fist into
the palm of his hand as he answered:</p><p>"Your life is more to me than any other consideration."</p><p>"But my life—how do you know it is a question of my life? Come, if we
are to quarrel, let us quarrel upon reasonable grounds. It does not
follow that I risk my life by staying—"</p><p>"Leave the house first; we can talk of that afterward."</p><p>"I have allowed you to talk too much already," she exclaimed angrily.
"Let us come to the bottom of things at once. I will not be influenced
nor cajoled nor bullied into leaving my post. Now, do you understand?
That is my final answer. You who were a commander, who were a leader of
men, what would you have done if one of your party had left his post at
a time of danger? I can tell you what you would have done—you would
have shot him, after first disgracing him, and now you would disgrace
me. Is it reasonable? Is it consistent?"</p><p>Bennett snapped his fingers.</p><p>"That for consistency!"</p><p>"And you would be willing to disgrace me—to have me disgrace myself?"</p><p>"Your life—" began Bennett again.</p><p>But suddenly Lloyd flashed out upon him with: "My life! My life! Are
there not some things better than life? You, above all men, should
understand that much. Oh, be yourself, be the man I thought you were.
You have your code; let me have mine. You could not be what you are, you
could not have done what you did, if you had not set so many things
above merely your life. Admit that you could not have loved me unless
you believed that I could do the same. How could you still love me if
you knew I had failed in my duty? How could you still love me if you
knew that you had broken down my will? I know you better than you know
yourself. You loved me because you knew me to be strong and brave and to
be above petty deceptions and shams and subterfuges. And now you ask me
to fail, to give up, to shirk, and you tell me you do so because you
love me."</p><p>"That is all so many words to me. I cannot argue with you, and there is
no time for it. I did not come here to—converse."</p><p>Never in her life before had Lloyd been so angry as at that moment. The
sombre crimson of her cheeks had suddenly given place to an unwonted
paleness; even her dull–blue eyes, that so rarely sparkled, were all
alight. She straightened herself.</p><p>"Very well, then," she answered quietly, "our conversation can stop
where it is. You will excuse me, Mr. Bennett, if I leave you. I have my
work to do."</p><p>Bennett was standing between her and the door. He did not move. Very
gravely he said:</p><p>"Don't. Please don't bring it—to that."</p><p>Lloyd flashed a look at him, her eyes wide, exclaiming:</p><p>"You don't mean—you don't dare—"</p><p>"I tell you again that I mean to carry my point."</p><p>"And I tell you that I shall <span class="emphasis"><em>not</em></span> leave my patient."</p><p>Bennett met her glance for an instant, and, holding her gaze with his,
answered but two words. Speaking in a low voice and with measured
slowness, he said:</p><p>"You—shall."</p><p>There was a silence. The two stood there, looking straight into one
another's eyes, their mutual opposition at its climax. The seconds began
to pass. The conflict between the man's aggression and the woman's
resistance reached its turning point. Before another word should be
spoken, before the minute should pass, one of the two must give ground.</p><p>And then it was that Lloyd felt something breakdown within her,
something to which she could not put a name. A mysterious element of her
character, hitherto rigid and intact, was beginning at last to crumble.
Somewhere a breach had been opened; somewhere the barrier had been
undermined. The fine steadfastness that was hers, and that she had so
dearly prized, her strength in which she had gloried, her independence,
her splendid arrogant self–confidence and conscious power seemed all at
once to weaken before this iron resolve that shut its ears and eyes,
this colossal, untutored, savage intensity of purpose.</p><p>And abruptly her eyes were opened, and the inherent weakness of her sex
became apparent to her. Was it a mistake, then? Could not a woman be
strong? Was her strength grafted upon elemental weakness—not her
individual weakness, but the weakness of her sex, the intended natural
weakness of the woman? Had she built her fancied impregnable fortress
upon sand?</p><p>But habit was too strong. For an instant, brief as the opening and
shutting of an eye, a vision was vouchsafed to her, one of those swift
glimpses into unplumbed depths that come sometimes to the human mind in
the moments of its exaltation, but that are gone with such rapidity that
they may not be trusted. For an instant Lloyd saw deep down into the
black, mysterious gulf of sex—down, down, down where, immeasurably
below the world of little things, the changeless, dreadful machinery of
Life itself worked, clashing and resistless in its grooves. It was a
glimpse fortunately brief, a vision that does not come too often, lest
reason, brought to the edge of the abyss, grow giddy at the sight and,
reeling, topple headlong. But quick the vision passed, the gulf closed,
and she felt the firm ground again beneath her feet.</p><p>"I shall not," she cried.</p><p>Was it the same woman who had spoken but one moment before? Did her
voice ring with the same undaunted defiance? Was there not a note of
despair in her tones, a barely perceptible quaver, the symbol of her
wavering resolve? Was not the very fact that she must question her
strength proof positive that her strength was waning?</p><p>But her courage was unshaken, even if her strength was breaking. To the
last she would strive, to the end she would hold her forehead high. Not
till the last hope had been tried would she acknowledge her defeat.</p><p>"But in any case," she said, "risk is better than certainty. If I risk
my life by staying, it is certain that he will die if I leave him at
this critical moment."</p><p>"So much the worse, then—you cannot stay."</p><p>Lloyd stared at him in amazement.</p><p>"It isn't possible; I don't believe you can understand. Do you know how
sick he is? Do you know that he is lying at the point of death at this
very moment, and that the longer I stay away from him the more his life
is in peril? Has he not rights as well as I; has he not a right to live?
It is not only my own humiliation that is at stake, it is the life of
your dearest friend, the man who stood by you, and helped you, and who
suffered the same hardships and privations as yourself."</p><p>"What's that?" demanded Bennett with a sudden frown.</p><p>"If I leave Mr. Ferriss now, if he is left alone here for so much as
half an hour, I will not answer—"</p><p>"Ferriss! What are you talking about? What is your patient's name?"</p><p>"Didn't you know?"</p><p>"Ferriss! Dick Ferriss! Don't tell me it's Dick Ferriss."</p><p>"I thought all the time you knew—that you had heard. Yes, it is Mr.
Ferriss."</p><p>"Is he very sick? What is he doing out here? No, I had not heard; nobody
told me. Pitts was to write—to—to wire. Will he pull through? What's
the matter with him? Is it he who had typhoid?"</p><p>"He is very dangerously ill. Dr. Pitts brought him here. This is his
house. We do not know if he will get well. It is only by watching him
every instant that we can hope for anything. At this moment there is no
one with him but a servant. <span class="emphasis"><em>Now</em></span>, Mr. Bennett, am I to go to my
patient?"</p><p>"But—but—we can get some one else."</p><p>"Not before three hours, and it's only the truth when I tell you he may
die at any minute. Am I to go?"</p><p>In a second of time the hideous situation leaped up before Bennett's
eyes. Right or wrong, the conviction that Lloyd was terribly imperilling
her life by remaining at her patient's bedside had sunk into his mind
and was not to be eradicated. It was a terror that had gripped him close
and that could not be reasoned away. But Ferriss? What of him? Now it
had brusquely transpired that his life, too, hung in the balance. How to
decide? How to meet this abominable complication wherein he must
sacrifice the woman he so dearly loved or the man who was the Damon to
his Pythias, the Jonathan to his David?</p><p>"Am I to go?" repeated Lloyd for the third time.</p><p>Bennett closed his eyes, clasping his head with both hands.</p><p>"Great God, wait—wait—I can't think—I—I, oh, this is terrible!"</p><p>Lloyd drove home her advantage mercilessly.</p><p>"Wait? I tell you we can't wait."</p><p>Then Bennett realised with a great spasm of horror that for him there
was no going back. All his life, accustomed to quick decisions in
moments of supreme peril, he took his decision now, facing, with such
courage as he could muster, its unspeakable consequences, consequences
that he knew must harry and hound him all the rest of his life.
Whichever way he decided, he opened his heart to the beak and talons of
a pitiless remorse. He could no longer see, in the dreadful confusion of
his mind, the right of things or the wrong of things, could not
accurately weigh chances or possibilities. For him only two alternatives
presented themselves, the death of Ferriss or the death of Lloyd. He
could see no compromise, could imagine no escape. It was as though a
headsman with ready axe stood at his elbow, awaiting his commands. And,
besides all this, he had long since passed the limit—though perhaps he
did not know it himself—where he could see anything but the point he
had determined to gain, the goal he had determined to reach. His mind
was made up. His furious energy, his resolve to conquer at all costs,
had become at last a sort of directed frenzy. The engine he had set in
motion was now beyond his control. He could not now—whether he would or
no—reverse its action, swerve it from its iron path, call it back from
the monstrous catastrophe toward which it was speeding him.</p><p>"God help us all!" he muttered.</p><p>"Well," said Lloyd expectantly.</p><p>Bennett drew a deep breath, his hands falling helplessly at his sides.
In a way he appeared suddenly bowed; the great frame of bone and sinew
seemed in some strange, indefinable manner to shrink, to stagger under
the sudden assumption of an intolerable burden—a burden that was never
to be lifted.</p><p>Even then, however, Bennett still believed in the wisdom of his course,
still believed himself to be right. But, right or wrong, he now must go
forward. Was it fate, was it doom, was it destiny?</p><p>Bennett's entire life had been spent in the working out of great ideas
in the face of great obstacles; continually he had been called upon to
overcome enormous difficulties with enormous strength. For long periods
of time he had been isolated from civilisation, had been face to face
with the simple, crude forces of an elemental world—forces that were to
be combated and overthrown by means no less simple and crude than
themselves. He had lost the faculty, possessed, no doubt, by smaller
minds, of dealing with complicated situations. To resort to expedients,
to make concessions, was all beyond him. For him a thing was absolutely
right or absolutely wrong, and between the two there was no gradation.
For so long a time had he looked at the larger, broader situations of
life that his mental vision had become all deformed and confused. He saw
things invariably magnified beyond all proportion, or else dwarfed to a
littleness that was beneath consideration. Normal vision was denied him.
It was as though he studied the world through one or the other ends of a
telescope, and when, as at present, his emotions were aroused, matters
were only made the worse. The idea that Ferriss might recover, though
Lloyd should leave him at this moment, hardly presented itself to his
mind. He was convinced that if Lloyd went away Ferriss would die; Lloyd
had said as much herself. The hope that Lloyd might, after all, nurse
him through his sickness without danger to herself was so remote that he
did not consider it for one instant. If Lloyd remained she, like the
other nurse, would contract the disease and die.</p><p>These were the half–way measures Bennett did not understand, the
expedients he could no longer see. It was either Lloyd or Ferriss. He
must choose between them.</p><p>Bennett went to the door of the room, closed it and leaned against it.</p><p>"No," he said.</p><p>Lloyd was stricken speechless. For the instant she shrank before him as
if from a murderer. Bennett now knew precisely the terrible danger in
which he left the man who was his dearest friend. Would he actually
consent to his death? It was almost beyond belief, and for the moment
Lloyd herself quailed before him. Her first thoughts were not of
herself, but of Ferriss. If he was Bennett's friend he was her friend
too. At that very moment he might be dying for want of her care. She was
fast becoming desperate. For the moment she could put all thought of
herself and of her own dignity in the background.</p><p>"What is it you want?" she cried. "Is it my humiliation you ask? Well,
then, you have it. It is as hard for me to ask favours as it is for you.
I am as proud as you, but I entreat you, you hear me, as humbly as I
can, to let me go. What do you want more than that? Oh, can't you
understand? While we talk here, while you keep me here, he may be dying.
Is it a time for arguments, is it a time for misunderstandings, is it a
time to think of ourselves, of our own lives, our own little affairs?"
She clasped her hands. "Will you please—can I, can I say more than
that; will you please let me go?"</p><p>"No."</p><p>With a great effort Lloyd tried to regain her self–control. She paused a
moment, then:</p><p>"Listen!" she said. "You say that you love me; that I am more to you
than even Mr. Ferriss, your truest friend. I do not wish to think of
myself at such a time as this, but supposing that you should make
me—that I should consent to leave my patient. Think of me then,
afterward. Can I go back there to the house, the house that I built? Can
I face the women of my profession? What would they think of me? What
would my friends think of me—I who have held my head so high? You will
ruin my life. I should have to give up my profession. Oh, can't you see
in what position you would place me?" Suddenly the tears sprang to her
eyes. "No!" she cried vehemently. "No, no, no, I will not, I will not be
disgraced!"</p><p>"I have no wish to disgrace you," answered Bennett. "It is strange for
you to say that to me, if I love you so well that I can give up Ferriss
for—"</p><p>"Then, if you love me so much as that, there must be one thing that you
would set even above my life. Do you wish to make me hate you?"</p><p>"There is nothing in the world more to me than your life; you know that.
How can you think it of me?"</p><p>"Because you don't understand—because you don't know that—oh, that I
love you! I—no—I didn't mean—I didn't mean—"</p><p>What had she said? What had happened? How was it that the words that
yesterday she would have been ashamed to so much as whisper to herself
had now rushed to her lips almost of their own accord? After all those
years of repression, suddenly the sweet, dim thought she had hidden in
her secretest heart's heart had leaped to light and to articulate words.
Unasked, unbidden, she had told him that she loved him. She, she had
done this thing when, but a few moments before, her anger against him
had shaken her to her very finger–tips. The hot, intolerable shame of it
smote like fire into her face. Her world was cracking about her ears;
everything she had prized the dearest was being torn from her,
everything she had fancied the strongest was being overthrown. Had she,
she who had held herself so proud and high, come at last to this?</p><p>Swiftly she turned from him and clasped her hands before her eyes and
sank down into the chair she had quitted, bowing her head upon her arms,
hiding her face, shutting herself from the light of day, quivering and
thrilling with an agony of shame and with an utter, an abject
self–contempt that was beyond all power of expression. But the instant
she felt Bennett's touch upon her shoulder she sprang up as if a knife
had pierced her, and shrank from him, turning her head away, her hand,
palm outward, before her eyes.</p><p>"Oh, please!" she begged piteously, almost inarticulately in the stress
of her emotion, "don't—if you are a man—don't take advantage—please,
please don't touch me. Let me go away."</p><p>She was talking to deaf ears. In two steps Bennett had reached her side
and had taken her in his arms. Lloyd could not resist. Her vigour of
body as well as of mind was crushed and broken and beaten down; and why
was it that in spite of her shame, that in spite of her unutterable
self–reproach, the very touch of her cheek upon his shoulder was a
comfort? Why was it that to feel herself carried away in the rush of
this harsh, impetuous, masculine power was a happiness? Why was it that
to know that her prided fortitude and hitherto unshaken power were being
overwhelmed and broken with a brutal, ruthless strength was an
exultation and a glory? Why was it that she who but a moment before
quailed from his lightest touch now put her arms about his neck and
clung to him with a sense of protection and of refuge, the need of which
she had always and until that very moment disdained?</p><p>"Why should you be sorry because you spoke?" said Bennett. "I knew that
you loved me and you knew that I loved you. What does it matter if you
said it or did not say it? We know each other, you and I. We understand.
You knew that I loved you. You think that I have been strong and
determined, and have done the things I set out to do; what I am is what
you made me. What I have done I have done because I thought you would
approve. Do you think I would have come back if I had not known that I
was coming back to you?" Suddenly an impatient exclamation escaped him,
and his clasp about her tightened. "Oh! words—the mere things that one
can <span class="emphasis"><em>say</em></span>, seem so pitiful, so miserably inadequate. Don't you know,
can't you feel what you are to me? Tell me, do you think I love you?"</p><p>But she could not bear to meet his glance just yet. Her eyes were
closed, and she could only nod her head.</p><p>But Bennett took her head in both his hands and turned her face to his.
Even yet she kept her eyes closed.</p><p>"Lloyd," he said, and his voice was almost a command; "Lloyd, look at
me. Do you love me?"</p><p>She drew a deep breath. Then her sweet dull–blue eyes opened, and
through the tears that brimmed them and wet her lashes she looked at him
and met his glance fearlessly and almost proudly, and her voice trembled
and vibrated with an infinite tenderness as she answered:</p><p>"I do love you, Ward; love you with all my heart."</p><p>Then, after a pause, she said, drawing a little from him and resting a
hand upon either shoulder:</p><p>"But listen, dear; we must not think of ourselves now. We must think of
him, so sick and weak and helpless. This is a terrible moment in our
lives. I don't know why it has come to us. I don't know why it should
all have happened as it has this morning. Just a few moments ago I was
angry as I never was in my life before—and at you—and now it seems to
me that I never was so happy; I don't know myself any more. Everything
is confused; all we can do is to hold to what we know is right and trust
that everything will be well in the end. It is a crisis, isn't it? And
all our lives and all our happiness depend upon how we meet it. I am all
different now. I am not the woman I was a half–hour ago. You must be
brave for me now, and you must be strong for me and help me to do my
duty. We must live up to the best that is in us and do what we think is
right, no matter what risks we run, no matter what the consequences are.
I would not have asked you to help me before—before what has
happened—but now I need your help. You have said I helped you to be
brave; help me to be brave now, and to do what I know is right."</p><p>But Bennett was still blind. If she had been dear to him before, how
doubly so had she become since she had confessed her love for him!
Ferriss was forgotten, ignored. He could not let her go, he could not
let her run the slightest risk. Was he to take any chance of losing her
now? He shook his head.</p><p>"Ward!" she exclaimed with deep and serious earnestness. "If you do not
wish me to risk my life by going to my post, be careful, oh, be very
careful, that you do not risk something that is more to us both than
life itself, by keeping me from it. Do you think I could love you so
deeply and so truly as I do if I had not kept my standards high; if I
had not believed in the things that were better than life, and stronger
than death, and dearer to me than even love itself? There are some
things I cannot do: I cannot be false, I cannot be cowardly, I cannot
shirk my duty. Now I am helpless in your hands. You have conquered, and
you can do with me as you choose. But if you make me do what is false,
and what is cowardly, and what is dishonourable; if you stand between me
and what I know is my duty, how can I love you, how can I love you?"</p><p>Persistently, perversely, Bennett stopped his ears to every
consideration, to every argument. She wished to hazard her life. That
was all he understood.</p><p>"No, Lloyd," he answered, "you must not do it."</p><p>"—and I want to love you," she went on, as though she had not heard. "I
want you to be everything to me. I have trusted you so long—had faith
in you so long, I don't want to think of you as the man who failed me
when I most needed his help, who made me do the thing that was
contemptible and unworthy. Believe me," she went on with sudden energy,
"you will kill my love for you if you persist."</p><p>But before Bennett could answer there was a cry.</p><p>"It is the servant," exclaimed Lloyd quickly. "She has been
watching—there in the room with him."</p><p>"Nurse—Miss Searight," came the cry, "quick—there is something
wrong—I don't know—oh, hurry!"</p><p>"Do you hear?" cried Lloyd. "It is the crisis—he may be dying. Oh,
Ward, it is the man you love! We can save him." She stamped her foot in
the frenzy of her emotion, her hands twisting together. "I <span class="emphasis"><em>will</em></span> go. I
forbid you to keep—to hinder—to—to, oh, what is to become of us? If
you love me, if you love him—<span class="emphasis"><em>Ward, will you let me go?</em></span>"</p><p>Bennett put his hands over his ears, his eyes closed. In the horror of
that moment, when he realised that no matter how he might desire it he
could not waver in his resolution, it seemed to him that his reason must
give way. But he set his back to the door, his hand gripped tight upon
the knob, and through his set teeth his answer came as before:</p><p>"No."</p><p>"Nurse—Miss Searight, where are you? Hurry, oh, hurry!"</p><p>"Will you let me go?"</p><p>"No."</p><p>Lloyd caught at his hand, shut so desperately upon the knob, striving to
loosen his clasp. She hardly knew what she was doing; she threw her arms
about his neck, imploring, commanding, now submissive, now imperious,
her voice now vibrating with anger, now trembling with passionate
entreaty.</p><p>"You are not only killing him, you are killing my love for you; will you
let me go—the love that is so dear to me? Let me love you, Ward; listen
to me; don't make me hate you; let me love you, dear—"</p><p>"Hurry, oh, hurry!"</p><p>"Let me love you; let him live. I want to love you. It's the best
happiness in my life. Let me be happy. Can't you see what this moment is
to mean for us? It is our happiness or wretchedness forever. Will you
let me go?"</p><p>"No."</p><p>"For the last time, Ward, listen! It is my love for you and his life.
Don't crush us both—yes, and yourself. You who can, who are so
powerful, don't trample all our happiness under foot."</p><p>"Hurry, hurry; oh, will nobody come to help?"</p><p>"Will you let me go?"</p><p>"No."</p><p>Her strength seemed all at once to leave her. All the fabric of her
character, so mercilessly assaulted, appeared in that moment to reel,
topple, and go crashing to its wreck. She was shattered, broken,
humbled, and beaten down to the dust. Her pride was gone, her faith in
herself was gone, her fine, strong energy was gone. The pity of it, the
grief of it; all that she held dearest; her fine and confident
steadfastness; the great love that had brought such happiness into her
life—that had been her inspiration, all torn from her and tossed aside
like chaff. And her patient—Ferriss, the man who loved her, who had
undergone such suffering, such hardship, who trusted her and whom it was
her duty to nurse back to life and health—if he should perish for want
of her care, then what infinite sorrow, then what endless remorse, then
what long agony of unavailing regret! Her world, her universe grew dark
to her; she was driven from her firm stand. She was lost, she was
whirled away—away with the storm, landmarks obliterated, lights gone;
away with the storm; out into the darkness, out into the void, out into
the waste places and wilderness and trackless desolation.</p><p>"Hurry, oh, hurry!"</p><p>It was too late. She had failed; the mistake had been made, the question
had been decided. That insensate, bestial determination, iron–hearted,
iron–strong, had beaten down opposition, had carried its point. Life and
love had been crushed beneath its trampling without pity, without
hesitation. The tragedy of the hour was done; the tragedy of the long
years to come was just beginning.</p><p>Lloyd sank down in the chair before the table, and the head that she had
held so high bowed down upon her folded arms. The violence of her grief
shook her from head to foot like a dry, light reed. Her heart seemed
literally to be breaking. She must set her teeth with all her strength
to keep from groaning aloud, from crying out in her hopeless sorrow her
impotent shame and despair.</p><p>Once more came the cry for help. Then the house fell silent. The minutes
passed. But for Lloyd's stifled grief there was no sound.
Bennett—leaning heavily against the door, his great shoulders stooping
and bent, his face ashen, his eyes fixed—did not move. He did not speak
to Lloyd. There was no word of comfort he could address to her—that
would have seemed the last mockery. He had prevailed, as he knew he
should, as he knew he must, when once his resolve was taken. The force
that, once it was unleashed, was beyond him to control, had accomplished
its purpose. His will remained unbroken; but at what cost? However, that
was for future consideration. The costs? Had he not his whole life
before him in which to count them? The present moment still called upon
him to act. He looked at his watch.</p><p>The next quarter of an hour was all a confusion to him. Its incidents
refused to define themselves upon his memory when afterward he tried to
recall them. He could remember, however, that when he helped Lloyd into
the carryall that was to take her to the depot in the village she had
shrunk from his touch and had drawn away from him as if from a
criminal—a murderer. He placed her satchel on the front seat with the
driver, and got up beside the driver himself. She had drawn her veil
over her face, and during the drive sat silent and motionless.</p><p>"Can you make it?" asked Bennett of the driver, watch in hand. The time
was of the shortest, but the driver put the whip to his horses and, at a
run, they reached the railway station a few moments ahead of time.
Bennett told the driver to wait, and while Lloyd remained in her place
he bought her ticket for the City. Then he went to the telegraph office
and sent a peremptory despatch to the house on Calumet Square.</p><p>A few moments later the train had come and gone, an abrupt eruption of
roaring iron and shrieking steam. Bennett was left on the platform
alone, watching it lessen to a smoky blur where the rails converged
toward the horizon. For an instant he stood watching, watching a
resistless, iron–hearted force whirling her away, out of his reach, out
of his life. Then he shook himself, turning sharply about.</p><p>"Back to the doctor's house, now," he commanded the driver; "on the run,
you understand."</p><p>But the other protested. His horses were all but exhausted. Twice they
had covered that distance at top speed and under the whip. He refused to
return. Bennett took the young man by the arm and lifted him from his
seat to the ground. Then he sprang to his place and lashed the horses to
a gallop.</p><p>When he arrived at Dr. Pitts's house he did not stop to tie the horses,
but threw the reins over their backs and entered the front hall, out of
breath and panting. But the doctor, during Bennett's absence, had
returned, and it was he who met him half–way up the stairs.</p><p>"How is he?" demanded Bennett. "I have sent for another nurse; she will
be out here on the next train. I wired from the station."</p><p>"The only objection to that," answered the doctor, looking fixedly at
him, "is that it is not necessary. Mr. Ferriss has just died."</p></section><footer/></body></html>