<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>XI</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="ch10.xhtml" title="X"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="XI" epub:type="chapter" id="id70352988622740"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">XI</h1></div></div></div><p>That particular day in the last week in April was sombre and somewhat
chilly, but there was little wind. The water of the harbour lay smooth
as a sheet of tightly stretched gray silk. Overhead the sea–fog drifted
gradually landward, descending, as it drifted, till the outlines of the
City grew blurred and indistinct, resolving to a dim, vast mass, rugged
with high–shouldered office buildings and bulging, balloon–like domes,
confused and mysterious under the cloak of the fog. In the nearer
foreground, along the lines of the wharves and docks, a wilderness of
masts and spars of a tone just darker than the gray of the mist stood
away from the blur of the background with the distinctness and delicacy
of frost–work.</p><p>But amid all this grayness of sky and water and fog one distinguished
certain black and shifting masses. They outlined every wharf, they
banked every dock, every quay. Every small and inconsequent jetty had
its fringe of black. Even the roofs of the buildings along the
water–front were crested with the same dull–coloured mass.</p><p>It was the People, the crowd, rank upon rank, close–packed, expectant,
thronging there upon the City's edge, swelling in size with the lapse of
every minute, vast, conglomerate, restless, and throwing off into the
stillness of the quiet gray air a prolonged, indefinite murmur, a
monotonous minor note.</p><p>The surface of the bay was dotted over with all manner of craft black
with people. Rowboats, perilously overcrowded, were everywhere.
Ferryboats and excursion steamers, chartered for that day, heeled over
almost to the water's edge with the unsteady weight of their passengers.
Tugboats passed up and down similarly crowded and displaying the flags
of various journals and news organisations—the News, the Press, the
Times, and the Associated Press. Private yachts, trim and very graceful
and gleaming with brass and varnish, slipped by with scarcely a ripple
to mark their progress, while full in the centre of the bay, gigantic,
solid, formidable, her grim, silent guns thrusting their snouts from her
turrets, a great, white battleship rode motionless to her anchor.</p><p>An hour passed; noon came. At long intervals a faint seaward breeze
compressed the fog, and high, sad–coloured clouds and a fine and
penetrating rain came drizzling down. The crowds along the wharves grew
denser and blacker. The numbers of yachts, boats, and steamers
increased; even the yards and masts of the merchant–ships were dotted
over with watchers.</p><p>Then, at length, from far up the bay there came a faint, a barely
perceptible, droning sound, the sound of distant shouting. Instantly the
crowds were alert, and a quick, surging movement rippled from end to end
of the throng along the water–front. Its subdued murmur rose in pitch
upon the second. Like a flock of agitated gulls, the boats in the
harbour stirred nimbly from place to place; a belated newspaper tug tore
by, headed for the upper bay, smoking fiercely, the water boiling from
her bows. From the battleship came the tap of a drum. The excursion
steamers and chartered ferryboats moved to points of vantage and took
position, occasionally feeling the water with their paddles.</p><p>The distant, droning sound drew gradually nearer, swelling in volume,
and by degrees splitting into innumerable component parts. One began to
distinguish the various notes that contributed to its volume—a sharp,
quick volley of inarticulate shouts or a cadenced cheer or a hoarse
salvo of steam whistles. Bells began to ring in different quarters of
the City.</p><p>Then all at once the advancing wave of sound swept down like the rush of
a great storm. A roar as of the unchained wind leaped upward from those
banked and crowding masses. It swelled louder and louder, deafening,
inarticulate. A vast bellow of exultation split the gray, low–hanging
heavens. Erect plumes of steam shot upward from the ferry and excursion
boats, but the noise of their whistles was lost and drowned in the
reverberation of that mighty and prolonged clamour. But suddenly the
indeterminate thunder was pierced and dominated by a sharp and
deep–toned report, and a jet of white smoke shot out from the flanks of
the battleship. Her guns had spoken. Instantly and from another quarter
of her hull came another jet of white smoke, stabbed through with its
thin, yellow flash, and another abrupt clap of thunder shook the windows
of the City.</p><p>The boats that all the morning had been moving toward the upper bay were
returning. They came slowly, a veritable fleet, steaming down the bay,
headed for the open sea, beyond the entrance of the harbour, each
crowded and careening to the very gunwales, each whistling with might
and main.</p><p>And in their midst—the storm–centre round which this tempest of
acclamation surged, the object on which so many eyes were focussed, the
hope of an entire nation—one ship.</p><p>She was small and seemingly pitifully inadequate for the great adventure
on which she was bound; her lines were short and ungraceful. From her
clumsy iron–shod bow to her high, round stern, from her bulging sides to
the summit of her short, powerful masts there was scant beauty in her.
She was broad, blunt, evidently slow in her movements, and in the smooth
waters of the bay seemed out of her element. But, for all that, she
imparted an impression of compactness, the compactness of things dwarfed
and stunted. Vast, indeed, would be the force that would crush those
bulging flanks, so cunningly built, moreover, that the ship must slip
and rise to any too great lateral pressure. Far above her waist rose her
smokestack. Overhead upon the mainmast was affixed the crow's nest.
Whaleboats and cutters swung from her davits, while all her decks were
cumbered with barrels, with crates, with boxes and strangely shaped
bales and cases.</p><p>She drew nearer, continuing that slow, proud progress down the bay,
honoured as no visiting sovereign had ever been. The great white
man–of–war dressed ship as she passed, and the ensign at her
fighting–top dipped and rose again. At once there was a movement aboard
the little outbound ship; one of her crew ran aft and hauled sharply at
the halyards, and then at her peak there was broken out not the
brilliant tri–coloured banner, gay and brave and clean, but a little
length of bunting, tattered and soiled, a faded breadth of stars and
bars, a veritable battle–flag, eloquent of strenuous endeavour, of
fighting without quarter, and of hardship borne without flinching and
without complaining.</p><p>The ship with her crowding escorts held onward. By degrees the City was
passed; the bay narrowed oceanwards little by little. The throng of
people, the boom of cannon, and the noise of shouting dropped astern.
One by one the boats of the escorting squadron halted, drew off, and,
turning with a parting blast of their whistles, headed back to the City.
Only the larger, heavier steamers and the sea–going tugs still kept on
their way. On either shore of the bay the houses began to dwindle,
giving place to open fields, brown and sear under the scudding sea–fog,
for now a wind was building up from out the east, and the surface of the
bay had begun to ruffle.</p><p>Half a mile farther on the slow, huge, groundswells began to come in; a
lighthouse was passed. Full in view, on ahead, stretched the open, empty
waste of ocean. Another steamer turned back, then another, then another,
then the last of the newspaper tugs. The fleet, reduced now to half a
dozen craft, ploughed on through and over the groundswells, the ship
they were escorting leading the way, her ragged little ensign straining
stiff in the ocean wind. At the entrance of the bay, where the enclosing
shores drew together and trailed off to surf–beaten sand–spits, three
more of the escort halted, and, unwilling to face the tumbling expanse
of the ocean, bleak and gray, turned homeward. Then just beyond the bar
two more of the remaining boats fell off and headed Cityward; a third
immediately did likewise. The outbound ship was left with only one
companion.</p><p>But that one, a sturdy little sea–going tug, held close, close to the
flank of the departing vessel, keeping even pace with her and lying
alongside as nearly as she dared, for the fog had begun to thicken, and
distant objects were shut from sight by occasional drifting patches.</p><p>On board the tug there was but one passenger—a woman. She stood upon
the forward deck, holding to a stanchion with one strong, white hand,
the strands of her bronze–red hair whipping across her face, the salt
spray damp upon her cheeks. She was dressed in a long, brown ulster, its
cape flying from her shoulders as the wind lifted it. Small as was the
outgoing ship, the tug was still smaller, and its single passenger had
to raise her eyes above her to see the figure of a man upon the bridge
of the ship, a tall, heavily built figure, buttoned from heel to chin in
a greatcoat, who stood there gripping the rail of the bridge with one
hand, and from time to time giving an order to his sailing–master, who
stood in the centre of the bridge before the compass and electric
indicator.</p><p>Between the man upon the bridge and the woman on the forward deck of the
tug there was from time to time a little conversation. They called to
one another above the throbbing of the engines and the wash of the sea
alongside, and in the sound of their voices there was a note of
attempted cheerfulness. Practically they were alone, with the exception
of the sailing–master on the bridge. The crew of the ship were nowhere
in sight. On the tug no one but the woman was to be seen. All around
them stretched the fog–ridden sea.</p><p>Then at last, in answer to a question from the man on the bridge, the
woman said:</p><p>"Yes—I think I had better."</p><p>An order was given. The tug's bell rang in her engine–room, and the
engine slowed and stopped. For some time the tug continued her headway,
ranging alongside the ship as before. Then she began to fall behind, at
first slowly, then with increasing swiftness. The outbound ship
continued on her way, and between the two the water widened and widened.
But the fog was thick; in another moment the two would be shut out from
each other's sight. The moment of separation was come.</p><p>Then Lloyd, standing alone on that heaving deck, drew herself up to her
full height, her head a little back, her blue eyes all alight, a smile
upon her lips. She spoke no word. She made no gesture, but stood there,
the smile yet upon her lips, erect, firm, motionless; looking steadily,
calmly, proudly into Bennett's eyes as his ship carried him farther and
farther away.</p><p>Suddenly the fog shut down. The two vessels were shut from each other's
sight.</p><p>As Bennett stood leaning upon the rail of the bridge behind him, his
hands deep in the pockets of his greatcoat, his eyes fixed on the
visible strip of water just ahead of his ship's prow, the
sailing–master, Adler, approached and saluted.</p><p>"Beg pardon, sir," he said, "we're just clear of the last buoy; what's
our course now, sir?"</p><p>Bennett glanced at the chart that Adler held and then at the compass
affixed to the rail of the bridge close at hand. Quietly he answered:</p><p>"Due north."</p></section><footer/></body></html>